{:title "Blogen"
 :layout :post
 :draft? true
 :tags  ["automation" "cryogen"]}


Well, the first post has to be a post about how this blog
was made, right?

I decided not to use [jekyll][jekyll] or [octopress][octopress].
Although I have used both of them in the past and they are still
the easiest way to go for those that are planing to deploy to
[github pages][ghpages], I wanted a `clojure`-built static site
generator, and it looks like [cryogen][cryogen] is the one I like 
the most.

The only "issue" I found using [cryogen][cryogen] is the way that 
the site is going to be deployed. I call it _issue_ because actually
this thing triggers the fun part which is to automate the process.

### The process

When the [cryogen][cryogen] site is build using the watcher

```bash
lein ring server
```

or just once using

```bash
lein run
```

the _ready-to-be-served_ blog will be thrown into `resources/public`.

[Gihub pages][ghpages] are capable of serving this content but you
have to push it first. This is handled autotically for jekyll based
sites, so this has to be done manually.


## Tech

This blog was made with [Cryogen][cryogen].

### Removing the _blog-prefix_

The first to do is to remove the `/blog` prefix. We want the blog content to be in the root. 
We need to edit the `resources/templates/config.edn` and set the `:blog-prefix` to a blank
(at least that was what I did, I guess removing it would also work).

### PLugin-in `circleci`

[Circleci] is going to deploy our blog to "production". 

Create a `circle.yml` in the root of the project which should looks something like this:

```yml
deployment:
  production:
    branch: master
    commands:
      - ./deploy.sh

test:
  override:
    - lein run
```

Obviously we are not seeking for elegance here, but we are trying just to make things work.

We are overriding the default task which is to run tests to compile the blog which will be
thrown in `resources/public`. Then the `deploy.sh` script is going to run which looks something
like this:

```bash
git config --global user.email "${GIT_EMAIL}"
git config --global user.name "${GIT_NAME}"

rm -rf build
git clone git@github.com:kongeor/kongeor.github.io.git build
cp -rf resources/public/* build
cd build
git add *
git commit -a -m "build"
git push -u origin master
cd ..
```

We are configuring `git` because each build is a fresh new start. `GIT_EMAIL` and `GIT_NAME` are
pulled from the environmental variables which can be configured in `circleci`'s project settings.
Go to [dashboard][cidash] and click the gear near the project.

Then we remove the `build` directory in case it exist - this is done mostly for convenience for
local testing. Then the `foo`.github.io is cloned to the `build` directory. This repo will have
only the built static site. Then the fresh compiled site is copied over it, and with the 
convenvience of `git` we add all the files which essentially will have only the diffences, and 
push the changes.

In order for this thing to work, [circleci] needs to have permissions to push to that
repo.


### Setup SSH keys

First you need to generate an [ssh key][genkeys]. Most probably you already have one, but I
don't think that it's a good idea to use that one, because you will need to add you private
key to [circleci].  Create a new one and give it a meaningful name.

Go to project settings under your `foo.github.io` repo and add the public key.

You need to go once again to project settings in [cidash], find the `SSH Permissions` settings
and add you private `SSH` key there. Check [this][cikeys] guide.

## Test it!

You should be good to test this setup. Create a [post], commit and push. `Circle ci` should fire
up the build and when ready it should push the compiled blog to "production".

[jekyll]: https://jekyllrb.com/
[octopress]: http://octopress.org/
[ghpages]: https://pages.github.com/
[cryogen]: http://cryogenweb.org/
[circleci]: <https://circleci.com/>
[cidash]: <https://circleci.com/dashboard>
[genkeys]: <https://help.github.com/articles/generating-an-ssh-key/>
[cikeys]: <https://circleci.com/docs/github-security-ssh-keys/>
[post]: <http://cryogenweb.org/docs/writing-posts.html>

